add blog post about recent updates (#469)
deltachat/deltachat-pages: _posts/2021-08-24-updates.md

---
title: M1, Chat Requests, Multi-Account, Connectivity
author: bjoern
image: ../assets/blog/2021-08-m1.jpg
---

> Many updates to tell, about M1 and, of course, about new releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many updates to tell about M1 and, of course, about new releases.
```
Pretty sure that comma is too much^^

## M1

<img src="../assets/blog/2021-08-m1.jpg" style="width:300px; float:left; margin-right:1em; margin-bottom:.2em;" alt="M1 and Delta Chat logos" />

_"M1?"_ A computer chip? Metric screw thread? Not even close.

M1 was a place in Hamburg where some Delta Chat developers
and friends met for two weeks in August.
We chilled, discussed and settled things -
or at least tried that :)

The meeting satisfies a whole blog post on its own.
However, for now,
I just want to take the chance to shout a big **"Thank you!"**
to everyone making that possible.
And also send some explicit greetings to everyone who could not make it to M1,
for pandemic or whatever reasons.

One visible outcome of M1 are new releases, **Delta Chat 1.22**, that will be discussed in the rest of this blogpost

## Much better Chat Requests

<img src="../assets/blog/2021-08-chat-request.png" style="width:250px; float:right; clear:both; margin-left:.8em; margin-bottom:.2em;" alt="A screenshot with a Chat Request" />

When a person you have not been in contact with yet, writes to you or adds you to a group,

> you now get a **Chat Request** that appears directly the chat list:

Reviewer: "that appears directly in the chat list" - at this point I expected the screenshot to show the chat list. And wasn't that already the case before, depending on the settings? As someone who is used to already see the chat request in the chat list, I'm wondering what has changed.

```suggestion
you now get a **Chat Request** that appears directly in the chat list:
```

Also, an "in" was missing, I think.

Adding an account is **just as easy** as the initial setup.

Compared to existing, Multi-Account implementations on Android and Desktop,
account **switching is super-fast.**
**No more forced waiting** when selecting a different account 
that has some messages to download just after switching.

We could make that possible by using the **new rust code base**,
that allows running accounts concurrently.
That also allows eg. group-joins being processed in the background -
imagine you give someone a qr-code for a group and switch to another account just in the moment one wants to join.
With the new code base, this is no longer an issue.

Good news for **Delta Chat Android and Desktop** -
we switched also there to the **same rust code base**. 

Having the same code base on all platforms
also opens several options for the future - stay curious :)

## Connectivity and Quota

The third big part: We made the **connectivity visible:**

<img src="../assets/blog/2021-08-connectivity.png" style="width:260px; clear:both; margin-bottom:.2em;" alt="Screenshot showing 'Not connected' in the title bar" />

The **title bar** now shows if you are not connected for whatever reason,

> may it be lost WIFI or may it be that your provider is down again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
may it be lost WIFI or because your provider is down.
```

That sounds better to me

A tap on the title
opens the **new Connectivity View** 
that gives you **detailed information** about the reason –
plus some other useful information, eg. **Quota information** if possible by your provider.

The connectivity view will get some more improvements the next time,
also there - stay tuned :)

## Get the updates

> As always, **check out [get.delta.chat](https://get.delta.chat) for the new versions** -
> as always, shipping to all stores will take some time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Check out [get.delta.chat](https://get.delta.chat) for the new versions** -
as always, shipping to all stores will take some time.
```

That's a bit much "as always"^^ or do you use it as a rhetorical device?

Author: could be ;) however, i'd say it is just too much :)

> And, also as always, the  new versions include even,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And as usual, the new versions include even
```

That might be a workaround for not saying "as always" so much - but if it's intended, you can of course just mark this suggestion as resolved.
